# Data-Integration-Maintenance
Combining data residing in different sources into a single system or platform could be challenging due to several reasons such as the overwhelming number of sources, the vast amount of data. Possible inconsistencies and redundancies could occur and should be resolved so that the warehouse is able to provide an integrated and reconciled view of data.

This document discusses two different solutions developed that help ensure having complete and accurate data in the data warehouse. The first solution is the Audit Maintenance solution that discusses a use-case of data integration cycle that extracts data from Microsoft SQL Server DB, which gathers data from different governmental sources, then loads it into another two different Databases DB2 DB and Teradata DB. The solution aims to ensure an accurate transfer of data from source to destination. The second solution is Modification type maintenance solution which is mainly about maintaining historical data in data warehouse which is critical task that needs to be handled securely to assure data credibility and audit-ability. The two solutions will be discussed below in detail.

-Audit Maintenance solution "First solution"
Data integration is one of the most important aspects of a Data Warehouse. Ensuring an error-free data transfer to destination is a crucial step for any integration cycle which is the main objective of the audit maintenance solution.

-Modification type solution "Second solution"
Maintaining historical data in data warehouse is a critical task that needs to be handled securely to assure data credibility and auditability. To maintain such task, mainly in the master/transaction tables, a modification type column is added to these tables. This column indicates the type of change or the status of each record in the table, whether it’s the first presence of this record in the database which is flagged by an (I) insert modification type, or mark changes/updates happened on the record which is flagged by an (U) updated modification type, or the record no longer active/deleted from the database which is flagged by a (D) delete modification type. This modification type mechanism assures the presence of the latest up to date version of each record in each table, but due to some issues in data transfer, data loading and other types of issues this mechanism is violated somehow. The modification type maintenance solution discussed below is a database stored procedure that detects and logs such issues into a database table to be fixed later.

There is a reusable and adjustable .dsx file and .sql file attached for any similar requirements. A .dsx file is a file that is created when using Datastage Manager to export jobs from a project. There should be Datastage Server installed to run the executable jobs. You can import ETL datastage jobs by following below steps: Open Websphere Datastage Designer Go to “Import” in the menu, Select “DataStage Components…” Then Browse for the .dsx file path and click “OK”.

After importing DS jobs, go to the main job sequence that contains jobs needed to run Audit maintenance sequence. And by reading the attached document, it will be easy to understand each stage in the sequence,how it works and the expected output from it.
